---
excludeFromSearch: true
---

# Getting started

Get to know Mosaic by quickly setting up a passwordless authentication flow using secured, WebAuthn-based biometrics. The experience is fully hosted and seamless—no usernames or passwords, only their device.

:::info Note
These features are available in the sandbox environment only.
:::

## Step 1: Add redirect URI
Upon successful authentication, Mosaic redirects to your authentication endpoint. This should be an endpoint in your backend server that accepts a `code` query parameter. It will be used to
complete the login flow by exchanging the code it receives for the user identity. For example, if `https://domain.com/login` is your redirect URI, we'll redirect to `https://domain.com/login?code=123abc`.

## Step 2: Create your app
To integrate with Mosaic, you'll need to create an application from the [Admin Portal](https://portal.transmitsecurity.io/). It will configure some basic settings used for authentication. If you don't already have a tenant, [contact us](mailto:info@transmitsecurity.com) and we'll set you up for free.

1. From **Applications**, click **Add application**.
2. Add the friendly application name and to display in the Admin Portal.
3. Create an OIDC client and add the authentication route configured in Step 1 as an allowed redirect URI.
4. Enable public sign-ups to allow guests to register by selecting **Allow registration** under **Public sign-up**.

:::info Note
Application ID, Client ID, and Client Secret are automatically generated. You'll need the client credentials to obtain access tokens used to authorize Mosaic API requests.
:::

## Step 3: Customize login experience
To customize the authentication experience and enable passkey authentication, navigate to **B2C** or **B2B Identity** (based on your setup) > **Experience management** and specify **passkey** as **Primary authentication method**.

## Step 4: Login user

Initiate a login flow with a request to `/cis/oidc/auth`. Once the user completes the flow, obtain the user access token by sending the `code` to `/oidc/token`.

## Step 5: View user events

In the Admin Portal, navigate to **User Activity** page to see events generated by Mosaic:

| Activity                                      | Event type                    | Description |
|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------|-------------|
| reset_password                              | Identity management      | A user reset their password. |
| webauthn_registration                       | Identity management      | A user registered WebAuthn credentials. |
| authentication_started                      | Identity management      | An authentication attempt was initiated. |
| authentication_failed                       | Identity management      | An authentication attempt failed. |

## What's next?
Now, let's learn more about our [authentication](/guides/user/auth_overview.md), [identity verification](/guides/verify/identity_verification_overview.md) and [fraud prevention](/guides/risk/overview.md) capabilities.