---
exclude: true
toc:
  maxDepth: 2
---
# Manage access based on roles

You can manage user access to your application based on their role, where the role determines which permissions to give the user. For example, an automotive company can provide suppliers access to data that they don't expose to consumers.

Role-based access control provides effective access management, and better security (see [Role-based access control](/guides/user/how_rbac_works.md)).

:::info Notes
Roles, permissions, and assignments are currently managed only using the [Role APIs](/openapi/user/roles/).
:::

## Step 1: Plan your strategy

Before implementing access controls, you'll need to decide on a strategy that makes sense for your business. Start by analyzing your business needs, and then define roles by grouping end-users based on common responsibilities.

Next, define permissions for each role—which may include permissions to modify data (e.g., read, write, full access), permission to access your applications, and permissions inside the application itself.

## Step 2: Create roles

Create the roles that will be assigned to end-users to control their access, such as `partner` and `customer`. For each role, send a [request](/openapi/user/roles/#operation/createRole) like the one below, passing a friendly name for the role as `role_name`. The request will return an autogenerated role ID (`role_id`) that uniquely identifies the role in your tenant and in API requests.

:::info Note

Make sure you have a valid client access token to authorize the request. If you don't already have a token, you'll need to get one. [Learn more](retrieve_client_tokens.md)

:::

```shell
curl -i -X POST \
  'https://api.transmitsecurity.io/cis/v1/roles' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer 91827321837bdfjf' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "role_name": "partner"
  }'
```

## Step 3: Assign permissions
Once roles are created, you can assign each role the relevant permissions using a [request](/openapi/user/roles/#operation/addPermissionsToRole) like the one below. The `role_id` is the identifier returned upon role creation (step 2), and the `permissions` array contains a list of permissions to add to this role.

:::info Note

Make sure you have a valid client access token to authorize the request. If you don't already have a token, you'll need to get one. [Learn more](retrieve_client_tokens.md)

:::

```shell
curl -i -X PUT \
  'https://api.transmitsecurity.io/cis/v1/roles/{role_id}/permissions' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer 91827321837bdfjf' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "permissions": [
      "read:customer-profile"
    ]
  }'
```

## Step 4: Assign roles to users
Assign the roles to your end-users using a [request](/openapi/user/roles/#operation/assignRole) like the one below. The `role_id` is the identifier returned in Step 2 upon role creation, and `entity_ids` contains the user IDs (`user_id`) to assign the role to.

:::info Note

Make sure you have a valid client access token to authorize the request. If you don't already have a token, you'll need to get one. [Learn more](retrieve_client_tokens.md)

:::

```shell
curl -i -X POST \
  'https://api.transmitsecurity.io/cis/v1/roles/{role_id}/assignments' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer 91827321837bdfjf' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "entity_ids": [
      "YlGZru-O7j3Ep79S2e8OU",
      "ek5Pvb4eccm1KPW8jlN6p"
    ],
    "entity_type": "User"
  }'
```

## Step 5: Get user's roles

Now that your RBAC model is set up, you can start using it by fetching assigned roles for a given user when needed. Use one of the following methods to retrieve a list of user's roles:

* [Obtain roles upon user authentication](#obtain-roles-upon-user-authentication)
* [Retrieve roles directly](#retrieve-roles-directly)
* [Request roles in id_token](#request-roles-in-id_token)

### Obtain roles upon user authentication

You can obtain roles upon each successful user authentication. The user's roles (by `role_id`) are returned in the access token. For example:

```json
{
  "tid": "",
  "app_name": "Acme",
  "app_id": "8flFllgrd1Wqiru4IGai0",
  "external_account_id": null,
  "roles": [
    "smP3MD65l7hKXG6qJ-S5d"
  ],
  "jti": "IJMTqbmijVG7_LsJz-y5U",
  "sub": "bb8dc75.8AEM5PpWyJBH6opzIOrJ2.transmit",
  "iat": 1658056533,
  "exp": 1658060133,
  "scope": "offline_access",
  "client_id": "bb8dc75.8AEM5PpWyJBH6opzIOrJ2.transmit",
  "iss": "https://userid.security",
  "aud": "userid-api"
}
```

### Retrieve roles directly

You can also retrieve roles for a user directly by sending a [request](/openapi/user/roles/#operation/getEntityRoles) like the one below, using the app-level access token for authorization. Use the `{entity_id}` path parameter to specify the `user_id`.

```shell
curl -i -X GET \
  'https://api.transmitsecurity.io/cis/v1/roles/assignments/{entity_id}' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer 91827321837bdfjf'
```

### Request roles in id_token

You can request roles as a part of the authentication flow. To do it, add the `claims` object to the request body as shown in the example below. As a result, `id_token` will contain a list of roles.

```shell
curl -i -X POST \
  'https://api.transmitsecurity.io/cis/v1/auth/otp/sms' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer 91827321837bdfjf' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "phone_number": "+16175551212",
    "create_new_user": true,
    "redirect_uri": "https://domain.com/verify",
    "claims": {
      "id_token": {
        "roles": null
      }
    }
  }'
```

## Step 6: Get role's permissions
To determine the user's access, you'll need to know the permissions corresponding to their roles. Their effective permissions will be the union of permissions for all the roles. To get permissions, do one of the following:

* [Fetch permissions for a role](#fetch-permissions-for-a-role)
* [Request effective permissions in id_token](#request-effective-permissions-in-id_token)


### Fetch permissions for a role

For each role, you can fetch the permission by sending a [request](/openapi/user/roles/#operation/getRoleById) like the one below, using the app-level access token for authorization. Use the `{role_id}` path parameter to specify the role.

```shell
curl -i -X GET \
  'https://api.transmitsecurity.io/cis/v1/roles/{role_id}' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer 91827321837bdfjf'
```
:::info Note

We recommend caching permissions for each role. Roles aren't updated frequently and caching prevents potential throttling from sending excessive calls to our server. Make sure to set a reasonable cache invalidation.

:::

### Request effective permissions in id_token

You can request permissions as a part of the authentication flow. To do it, add the `claims` object to the request body as shown in the example below. As a result, `id_token` will contain a list of permissions.

```shell
curl -i -X POST \
  'https://api.transmitsecurity.io/cis/v1/auth/otp/sms' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer 91827321837bdfjf' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "phone_number": "+16175551212",
    "create_new_user": true,
    "redirect_uri": "https://domain.com/verify",
    "claims": {
      "id_token": {
        "permissions": null
      }
    }
  }'
```

## Step 7: Unassign role from user

When needed, you can unassign a role from a user by sending a [request](/openapi/user/roles/#operation/removeAssignedRole) like the one below, using an app-level access token for authorization. The relevant role ID and user ID are specified in the path using `{role_id}` and `{entity_id}`, respectively.
```shell
curl -i -X DELETE \
  'https://api.transmitsecurity.io/cis/v1/roles/{role_id}/assignments/{entity_id}' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer 91827321837bdfjf'
```